README.md, before:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

# Kubernetes-and-Cloud-Native-Associate (KCNA)

<p align="center">
  <img width="360" src="KCNA-logo.jpeg">
</p>

- Note: A documentation of notes & useful used to prepare for the KCNA. Feel free to share them :)

## Exam Brief

- Duration : 1.5 hours
<!-- Number of questions : ??? Multiple choice questions -->
- Passing score: 67%
- Certification validity: 3 years
- Prerequisite: None
- Cost: $250 USD, 1 year exam eligibility, with a free retake within the year.
- [Official KCNA curriculum](https://github.com/cncf/curriculum/blob/master/KCNA_Curriculum.pdf)

  *Linux Foundation offer several discounts around the year such as CyberMonday, Kubecon and various other events - ensure to utilise these*

## KCNA topics overview

- [X] [Kubernetes Fundamentals - 46%](#kubernetes-fundamentals---46)
- [X] [Container Orchestration - 22%](#containerr-orchestration---22)
- [X] [Cloud Native Architecture - 16%](#cloud-native-architecture---16)
- [X] [Cloud Native Observability - 8%](#cloud-native-observability---8)
- [X] [Cloud Native Application Delivery - 8%](#cloud-native-application-delivery---8)

#### Extra helpful materials

- [x] [Slack](#slack)
- [x] [Books](#books)
- [x] [Youtube Videos](#useful-youtube-videos)

### Useful keys

- K8s = Kubernetes
- CNCF = Cloud Native Computing Foundation

## :small_blue_diamond: Kubernetes Fundamentals - 46%
### Fundamental Kuberenetes resources

- [Pods in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)
- [Deployments in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/)
- [Services in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)
- [ReplicaSets in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/)

### Kubernetes Architecture

- [Kubernetes Componenent](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/)
- [Nodes in K8s](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/)
- [Control Plane-Node Communication](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/control-plane-node-communication/)
- 

### Kubernetes API

- [The Kubernetes API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/)
- [Kubernetes API server](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/)

### Containers

- [What are Containers?](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/)
- [Containers](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container)
- [Docker Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqMOX6JJhGo) (OPTIONAL)
- [Best practices for creating Dockerfiles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JofsaZ3H1qM)
- [Containers vs VMS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cjXI-yxqGTI)

### Scheduling

- [The Kubernetes Scheduler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/kube-scheduler/)
- [Assigning Pods to Nodes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/)
- [Scheduling framework](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/)
- [How the K8s scheduler works](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rDCWxkvPlAw)

## :small_blue_diamond: Container Orchestration - 22%

### Containers Orchestration Fundamentals

- [Container Orchestration Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBF6Bvth0zw)

### Runtime

- [Container runtimes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes/)
- [Container Runtime Interface (CRI)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cri/)
- []()

### Security

- [Resource 1]()

### Networking

- [Resource 1]()

### Service Mesh

- [Managing microservice with Istio service mesh](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2017/05/managing-microservices-with-istio-service-mesh/)


### Storage

- [Resource 1]()

## :small_blue_diamond: Cloud Native Architecture - 16%

- [The Cloud Native Glossary](https://github.com/cncf/glossary/blob/main/cloudnative-glossary.pdf)
- [CNCF Cloud Native Interactive Landscape](https://landscape.cncf.io/)
- [The beginners guide to the CNCF landscape](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2018/11/05/beginners-guide-cncf-landscape/)
- [Graduated and incubaring projects in the CNCF eco-system](https://www.cncf.io/projects/)
- [Introduction to Monolithic Architecture and MicroServices Architecture](https://medium.com/koderlabs/introduction-to-monolithic-architecture-and-microservices-architecture-b211a5955c63)
- [Microservices Architecture](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/architecture-styles/microservices)
- [Managing microservice with Istio service mesh](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2017/05/managing-microservices-with-istio-service-mesh/)
- [What is microservices architecture?](https://cloud.google.com/learn/what-is-microservices-architecture)
- [Microservices vs Monolithic Architecture](https://www.mulesoft.com/resources/api/microservices-vs-monolithic)

### Autoscaling

- [Resource 1]()

### Serverless

- [Microservices vs. Serverless Architecture](https://www.sumologic.com/blog/microservices-vs-serverless-architecture/)
- [Serverless Functions as a Service for Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2017/01/fission-serverless-functions-as-service-for-kubernetes/)
- [Serverless containers on K8s](https://knative.dev/docs/)
- [Knative GitHub](https://github.com/knative)


### Community & Governance

- [Resource 1]()

### Roles & Personas

- [Resource 1]()

### Open Standards

- [Resource 1]()

## :small_blue_diamond: Cloud Native Observability - 8%

### Telemetry & Observability

- [Resource 1]()

### Prometheus

- [Resource 1]()


### Cost Management

- [Resource 1]()
## :small_blue_diamond: Cloud Native Application Delivery - 8%

### Application Delivery Fundamentals

- [Resource 1]()

### GitOps

- [Resource 1]()

### CI/CD

- [Resource 1]()

## Slack

1. [Kubernetes Community - #kcna-exam-prep](https://kubernetes.slack.com)
1. [Kubernetes Community](https://kubernauts-slack-join.herokuapp.com/)

## Books

## Useful Youtube vdeos

## Other KCNA related repos

Commit message:

add links for security, networking & other topics

README.md, after:

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0)
[![PRs Welcome](https://img.shields.io/badge/PRs-welcome-brightgreen.svg?style=flat-square)](http://makeapullrequest.com)

# Kubernetes-and-Cloud-Native-Associate (KCNA)

<p align="center">
  <img width="360" src="KCNA-logo.jpeg">
</p>

- Note: A documentation of notes & useful used to prepare for the KCNA. Feel free to share them :)

## Exam Brief

- Duration : 1.5 hours
<!-- Number of questions : ??? Multiple choice questions -->
- Passing score: 67%
- Certification validity: 3 years
- Prerequisite: None
- Cost: $250 USD, 1 year exam eligibility, with a free retake within the year.
- [Official KCNA curriculum](https://github.com/cncf/curriculum/blob/master/KCNA_Curriculum.pdf)

  *Linux Foundation offer several discounts around the year such as CyberMonday, Kubecon and various other events - ensure to utilise these*

## KCNA topics overview

- [X] [Kubernetes Fundamentals - 46%](#kubernetes-fundamentals---46)
- [X] [Container Orchestration - 22%](#containerr-orchestration---22)
- [X] [Cloud Native Architecture - 16%](#cloud-native-architecture---16)
- [X] [Cloud Native Observability - 8%](#cloud-native-observability---8)
- [X] [Cloud Native Application Delivery - 8%](#cloud-native-application-delivery---8)

#### Extra helpful materials

- [x] [Slack](#slack)
- [x] [Books](#books)
- [x] [Youtube Videos](#useful-youtube-videos)

### Useful keys

- K8s = Kubernetes
- CNCF = Cloud Native Computing Foundation

## :small_blue_diamond: Kubernetes Fundamentals - 46%
### Fundamental Kuberenetes resources

- [Pods in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/)
- [Deployments in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/deployment/)
- [Services in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/)
- [ReplicaSets in Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/replicaset/)

### Kubernetes Architecture

- [Kubernetes Componenent](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/components/)
- [Nodes in K8s](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/)
- [Control Plane-Node Communication](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/control-plane-node-communication/)
- 

### Kubernetes API

- [The Kubernetes API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/kubernetes-api/)
- [Kubernetes API server](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/)

### Containers

- [What are Containers?](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/)
- [Containers](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container)
- [Docker Tutorial for Beginners](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fqMOX6JJhGo) (OPTIONAL)
- [Best practices for creating Dockerfiles](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JofsaZ3H1qM)
- [Containers vs VMS](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cjXI-yxqGTI)

### Scheduling

- [The Kubernetes Scheduler](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/kube-scheduler/)
- [Assigning Pods to Nodes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/)
- [Scheduling framework](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/scheduling-framework/)
- [How the K8s scheduler works](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rDCWxkvPlAw)

## :small_blue_diamond: Container Orchestration - 22%

### Containers Orchestration Fundamentals

- [What is Kubernetes?](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/what-is-kubernetes/)
- [Container Orchestration Explained](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBF6Bvth0zw)

### Runtime

- [Container runtimes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes/)
- [Container Runtime Interface (CRI)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/cri/)
- [What are Runtime Classes?](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/containers/runtime-class/)

### Security

- [Overview of Cloud Native Security](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/overview/)
- [Securing a cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/securing-a-cluster/)
- [Cloud native security guide for building secure applications](https://snyk.io/learn/cloud-native-security-for-cloud-native-applications/)
- [Controlling access to the K8s API](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/controlling-access/)
- []()

### Networking

- [Cluster networking in K8s](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/networking/)
- [Network Policies in K8s](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/)
- [Services, Load Balancing and Networking](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/)
- []()

### Service Mesh

- [Managing microservice with Istio service mesh](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2017/05/managing-microservices-with-istio-service-mesh/)


### Storage

- [Resource 1]()

## :small_blue_diamond: Cloud Native Architecture - 16%

- [The Cloud Native Glossary](https://github.com/cncf/glossary/blob/main/cloudnative-glossary.pdf)
- [CNCF Cloud Native Interactive Landscape](https://landscape.cncf.io/)
- [The beginners guide to the CNCF landscape](https://www.cncf.io/blog/2018/11/05/beginners-guide-cncf-landscape/)
- [Graduated and incubaring projects in the CNCF eco-system](https://www.cncf.io/projects/)
- [Introduction to Monolithic Architecture and MicroServices Architecture](https://medium.com/koderlabs/introduction-to-monolithic-architecture-and-microservices-architecture-b211a5955c63)
- [Microservices Architecture](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/guide/architecture-styles/microservices)
- [Managing microservice with Istio service mesh](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2017/05/managing-microservices-with-istio-service-mesh/)
- [What is microservices architecture?](https://cloud.google.com/learn/what-is-microservices-architecture)
- [Microservices vs Monolithic Architecture](https://www.mulesoft.com/resources/api/microservices-vs-monolithic)

### Autoscaling

- [Resource 1]()

### Serverless

- [Microservices vs. Serverless Architecture](https://www.sumologic.com/blog/microservices-vs-serverless-architecture/)
- [Serverless Functions as a Service for Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2017/01/fission-serverless-functions-as-service-for-kubernetes/)
- [Serverless containers on K8s](https://knative.dev/docs/)
- [Knative GitHub](https://github.com/knative)


### Community & Governance

- [Resource 1]()

### Roles & Personas

- [Resource 1]()

### Open Standards

- [Resource 1]()

## :small_blue_diamond: Cloud Native Observability - 8%

### Telemetry & Observability

- [Resource 1]()

### Prometheus

- [Resource 1]()


### Cost Management

- [Resource 1]()
## :small_blue_diamond: Cloud Native Application Delivery - 8%

### Application Delivery Fundamentals

- [Resource 1]()

### GitOps

- [Resource 1]()

### CI/CD

- [Resource 1]()

## Slack

1. [Kubernetes Community - #kcna-exam-prep](https://kubernetes.slack.com)
1. [Kubernetes Community](https://kubernauts-slack-join.herokuapp.com/)

## Books

## Useful Youtube vdeos

## Other KCNA related repos
